[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: One of the
great frustrations many of us
have is that we feel our
government representatives turn
a blind eye while Wall
Street robs us blind.
But there are, in
fact, aware people
at the top of the
political spectrum who
are paying attention.
Former Canadian defense
minister Paul Hellyer
has been keeping an
eye on the money mafia
throughout his life and career.
I caught up with
him in Los Angeles
to learn just how deep
the corruption goes
and what's required of us
to take back our system.
Paul, we're back, and we could
not end the conversation.
You brought up a couple juicy
pearls in your background
in economics and your
book, "The Money Mafia."
I really wanted to have
this conversation with you
because we are a slave
species, but not in the way
that some of the people mean.
We're a slave species to a
horrid economic system that has
been artificially constructed.
>>PAUL HELLYER:
We're slaves to debt.
>>REGINA: We're slaves to debt.
Now I'm going to start it out.
And in your book,
you make this comment
at the beginning of
one of the chapters,
that you always kept
an eye on the mafia
throughout your career.
You kind of needed to
know what they were up to.
Let's start the
conversation there.
Why?
>>HELLYER: Why?
Because they have a way of
compromising politicians.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: They will contribute
to your campaign funds,
just normally.
And unless you know who
they are and what they are,
you won't even know about it.
And maybe eventually, years
later, you might find out.
Or there might be some
request, something like that.
And I've had personal
experience when
I was dabbling with a little
private political party at one
time.
I got a check for $5,000.
And it came with a
letter that said,
there's more where
this came from.
Being a little bit suspicious,
I thought to myself,
I wonder what that's all about.
So I got in touch
with the editor
of our major paper,
the "Toronto Star,"
and asked if he could
give me any leads.
About two weeks
later, he wrote back
and he said, yes, that's the
lawyer for the number one mafia
guy in the Hamilton area.
And so--
>>REGINA: So you started
learning about shadow
operations early on.
>>HELLYER: Right.
So the check went
back, despite the fact
that it would have been
very useful at the time.
No, it's just something
to keep track of.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: So I--
>>REGINA: So it
was the beginning
of looking at shadow
effects of money.
And I have a question, and I
don't know if it's relevant
or not.
Having looked at that and
watched how that works--
and we know, just mostly
through fictionalized accounts
and some news, how those
kinds of cartels work.
But let's now start
dovetailing that
into how the cartel at
large is working now,
and the similarities between the
mafia and the current cartels.
>>HELLYER: Well, most
people, first of all,
don't know what money is.
And so let's start there.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: The change you have
in your pocket or in your purse
is less than 1%.
Just change.
The bills you carry in your
pocketbook or purse and so on,
or have stashed around, are,
depending on circumstances,
maybe 3% of money.
All the rest are bank deposits.
It is virtual money.
It is not real money.
It is not legal tender,
although it is used
as if it were legal tender.
It is a global fraud, F-R-A-U-D.
And it's a Ponzi scheme worse
than Bernie Madoff's in the
sense that it has affected tens
of thousands of people
all over the world,
and wrecked their lives, and
wrecked their businesses.
And it is because
all of that money
is created as debt, which has
to be repaid with interest.
But nobody creates
any money with which
to repay either
principal or interest.
So it doesn't take you long
to figure out what to do.
You have to borrow more in order
to pay the interest on what
you already know.
Now, the sort of relationship
to the mafia that I
have in my book is that we
have had an investigation
in our city of
Montreal in Canada.
And it was brought into the
evidence-- the allegation,
at least-- that the mafia had
been creaming off 2% or 2.5%
of all the contracts for public
works in the city for years.
The bankers only need $0.05
to create $1 in money that
has to be repaid with interest.
>>REGINA: They're skimming 95%.
>>HELLYER: 95% off
the top of every loan
that people take out.
Whether it's a mortgage,
or a loan for a car,
or to start a business, or to
expand a business, or whatever,
95% off the top.
So that is why you have
these absolutely enormous
wealthy people, where now 80
families own more than 50%
of the whole wealth
of the world.
And it's getting
worse all the time.
A year ago, I think
it was 88 families.
This is part of globalization.
>>REGINA: Becoming
more concentrated, yes.
>>HELLYER: Yeah, part
of globalization.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HELLYER: But it is
basically the banking system,
because they're buying up
assets all over the world
for $0.05 on the dollar.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: And if
you can do that,
you can become immensely
wealthy in no time flat.
And that's exactly--
>>REGINA: Well,
and it's something
they gifted themselves.
>>HELLYER: Well, of course.
But politicians, kings,
queens, princes, presidents,
and others, have consented.
Because the difference between
Bernie Madoff and the bankers
is that the banks'
stealing is legal.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: But there is
legislation that allows
them to do what they're doing.
And so the problem is to
change the legislation
and to have a fairer system.
And as of now, what
needs to be done,
of course, because the
world is drowning in debt--
the debt situation at the moment
is the worst it has ever been,
I think in the
history of the world.
And it's getting worse
instead of better.
So what has to be
done is the infusion
of-- some days I use
"significant amounts."
Other days I say
"massive amounts"
of government-created, debt-free
money to make the whole mix,
to change it, to add a
different kind of money which
will allow the system to work
without having to go back
to the bankers and borrow.
And the interesting thing is,
the people own the rights.
In Canada, we own them outright.
>>REGINA: You own what outright?
>>HELLYER: The right
to create money.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
>>HELLYER: 100% of it.
I'm not suggesting 100%.
Actually, in my book and
one or two recent books,
I have promoted the idea of 34%.
And that would be enough,
A, to reduce the leverage--
and we haven't talked about
leverage, but maybe we should--
from 20 to 1, which is creaming
95% off the top, to 2 to 1,
which is having to put up 50%.
And it's still a good deal.
But the banking industry
can play a role, still,
providing a little
credit to new businesses
and this sort of thing.
And that's the reason
that we can leave them
with a little bit of
money-creation power, which
is positive, but not with this
system where they can just
take it all.
And now they have a
monopoly in creating money.
And the monopoly must end.
It must end right away.
And governments have to
start creating enough money
to balance their books,
to balance their budgets,
and to meet the real
needs of the people
at reasonable tax rates.
That's what has to be done.
And you have a special
problem in the United States
of major proportions,
unfortunately,
that you have this monster, the
Federal Reserve system, around.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Well, for anyone
to-- just because we
can't get into all of it.
But they can go to
"Creature from Jekyll
Island," for example, and--
>>HELLYER: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: Yeah, Griffin's
site, and get the book
and start educating
yourself on that.
>>HELLYER: Or "The Web of Debt."
>>REGINA: "Web of
Debt" by Ellen Brown.
And I've done some interviews
with her too, so there's--
>>HELLYER: And you just have to
read the first hundred pages.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: Including
how Morgan Bank
gained control of the
press so that they wouldn't
talk about these issues.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: Sending people out.
What are the most
important papers?
Well, here they are.
Get control of the 25 most
important papers in the United
States.
They will never mention
our creaming them.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: Because
we won't let them.
It's the same kind of
secrecy that actually
applies in the UFO field.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: So that
nothing gets in the paper,
because there is an
embargo on those issues.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: And probably it
is done exactly the same way
as Morgan Bank did a
little over 100 years ago,
when the Fed was formed.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, now we're going
to backtrack because I
want to get into
the anatomy of this
and how a lot of the trouble
we're in today began.
I want to go back into pre-World
War II, back through IG Farben,
Nazis, Bank of
International Settlements,
and do a little anatomy of
war equals debt equals profit.
>>HELLYER: Well, yeah.
Anything that--
>>REGINA: Because we have
wars going constantly.
It's for a reason.
>>HELLYER: Where you
have any borrowing,
which you have to have in war,
then that's good for the banks
and bad for the people, because
they're left with the debt.
The people that make the
munitions make a lot of money.
The banks make a lot of money.
A lot of ordinary
people get killed.
Their families' lives
are disrupted, and so on.
And they are left
with the debt, which
they have to pay,
and not only repay
principal, but also interest.
Which they can't do, because
there's no money with which
to repay it.
So it just keeps getting
larger and larger and larger.
And you folks in
the United States
have this charade that
you have to go through
every once in a while to
increase the credit limit.
[REGINA SNORTING]
Whereas it would not
be necessary at all
if we had a system that
was the least bit sensible,
because the federal government
could create enough money
to balance its budget.
An important point
is that people
say you have to live
within your means.
Well, we, as individuals, do.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLYER: And state
governments do.
And municipalities have to.
But federal governments
don't because they
own the patent to create money.
And we have a proposal
in Canada that's
been talked about of creating
cash by instead of giving out
bonds to borrow money, that
they create share certificates
in the country, just
in nominal amounts
of so many billions of dollars.
Hand them to the
central bank in exchange
for cash, which
is then deposited
in the government's accounts.
And in Canada, we're suggesting
a certain amount, $150 billion
a year for seven years,
and split equally
between the federal government
and the provincial governments.
So we'd share it with
the municipalities.
And this would be
enough for everyone
to balance their books.
>>REGINA: Sounds
totally rational.
>>HELLYER: Absolutely
And all of a sudden, the
economy would take off.
And the despair of the
present young generation,
who quote unquote
"are not going to
do as well as their parents"
because of the system--
>>REGINA: They're
left holding the bag.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
They will have renewed hope.
So easy.
But the problem
is it's too easy,
and the other that money
mafia have too much power
and are willing to grease
the palms of people
that will support them
one way or another.
But something has to change.
Otherwise--
I've been reading
several papers recently,
who say there will probably
be another recession
within the next two years.
And then some people say,
maybe three or four years.
We don't need any
more recessions.
Heavenly days, I
forget how many there
have been in the last 100 years,
but 30, or something like that?
>>REGINA: And
theoretically they can't do
what they've done in the past.
So the quantitative easing,
people are kind of on to that.
There's no easing of anything.
There's nothing to ease it with.
>>HELLYER: Well--
>>REGINA: Under the current--
>>HELLYER: Quantitative easing
was liquidity for the banks,
not for the people.
>>REGINA: Not for the people.
>>HELLYER: No.
That's--
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>HELLYER: And they created
trillions of dollars
to bail out the banks
and some businesses,
who were the friends of the
shareholders of the Fed.
Because the Fed is a
private corporation.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: It's not
government-owned,
as we have in Canada.
And this was a big mistake made
a little over 100 years ago.
Everybody recognized it.
But in 100 years, Congress
hasn't done anything about it.
Long since--
>>REGINA: Again, "Creature
from Jekyll Island," read it.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
Long since time to
come to terms with it
and do something
so that you regain
control of the most important
economic tool in the toolbox.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, so in your book,
as you were explaining
how, along the way,
how this played out,
one of the things I
found really interesting
was an area where
you were talking
about the Bank of
International Settlements--
this was pre-World
War II-- and the fact
that there were agreements
made between governments,
for example, that we were not
to bomb the IG Farben factories.
You had a lot of vehicles
being produced out of there.
Ford produced a lot of the
vehicles for the Nazi effort,
for example.
And that it was agreed
upon because it was already
agreed that at the
conclusion of World War II,
if I'm understanding what
you said in there correctly,
the industry of
Germany was going
to be used to help
rebuild after the war,
so please spare those factories.
How far in advance is all
this stuff planned out?
>>HELLYER: Wouldn't
it be nice to know?
>>REGINA: I mean, that was
all known before the war even
started.
>>HELLYER: But there
was collaboration
between the United States,
and industry, and the Nazis.
The Bank for
International settlement
was almost in the
pockets of the Nazis.
And it has a very
bad reputation,
and was supposed to have
been wound up after the war.
But it had some
friends in court,
and one way or another,
managed to escape.
And then it has become
sort of the regulator--
it is a regulator--
of the banking system.
And they're the ones
that set the rules that
say that the banks can use
$0.05 to create a dollar.
>>REGINA: Right.
And I just think it's
really important for people
to grokk the fact
that all of this
is happening behind
the scenes to engineer
certain people to rise
to power-- like Hitler,
for example--
certain end scenarios
so that certain other
companies and corporations
within the
military-industrial complex
will continue prospering through
the whole process and beyond,
to say nothing of the banking
industry, the Warburgs,
for example, being really
central to that theme.
I don't know if you ever--
I mean, it's controversial,
but there is a little
book that was written
called "The Secret
Backers of Hitler,"
for example, that was supposedly
an end-of-life confessional
by one of the Warburgs,
saying, he-- he spoke German.
He was from Germany.
And he was actually
doing the business
of running the checks
between the Wall Street
bankers and Hitler, to help
get him up and running.
Many of the families-- who
were Jewish, by the way.
So there was this
whole thing where
money transcends all of
these other lines and issues.
It doesn't matter who suffers
at the end in the name of money.
Right?
>>HELLYER: It's an
insidious and evil system.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: I don't
often use that word.
My wife insists that I say that
the people responsible for it,
there are evil consequences
of their actions.
So let's give them the
benefit of the doubt.
We can't get inside their minds.
But the system is
evil because it
is making debt slaves of just
about everybody in the world.
And it's creating a class of
very, very, very rich people.
You read about it in the
papers periodically now,
the pyramid of wealth.
When you get to the very top,
people with so much money,
they don't even
put in the figures.
And then you've got
the multi-billionaires.
>>REGINA: The
widening base of us.
>>HELLYER: And then you get
the multi-multimillionaires,
and so on.
And then you get down.
And I think it's
1% of the people
are going to have
more money than all
of the people of the rest
of the world put together.
And that's not good.
And you know, one of the
things-- when globalization
came along, they
admitted that it
was going to have some
problems of redistribution.
But no one said what
the cure might be.
They kept writing,
saying, well, there
are some problems
we have to work out
about the redistribution
of wealth.
And maybe there's too much
money flowing to certain people.
But I never read an
article that said,
and the cure to this problem is.
>>REGINA: You're right.
You're right.
You don't see that story.
Now, this brings us
to another topic,
which ameliorates a lot
of the effects of poverty,
for example, around the
world on many levels.
And that has to do with
our energy sources.
And as you've said in your book,
the banking industry, number
one at the top of
this very sick system.
Next under that is oil.
>>HELLYER: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: And breaking
the oil cartels,
when I know for at
least the last 15 years
that I've been doing
this, you read about.
You run into an inventor
here and there saying,
I've got this little prototype,
and well on their way.
And if we look at
what happened out
of Roswell, from our
last conversation,
we're absolutely on our way to
being able to eliminate the oil
industry.
And let's talk about it.
Because--
>>HELLYER: In my book, I
say, our house is on fire.
And we're not doing
anything about it.
And when I wrote "The Light
at the End of the Tunnel,"
I said we had 10 years.
When I wrote "The Money Mafia,
a World in Crisis," I said,
we have seven years to
change the power source
in every car, truck,
train, boat, airplane,
and home in the world.
>>REGINA: Which can be done.
>>HELLYER: Which is possible.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: All we have to do
is what we did in World War II.
And I remember it well.
It's the advantage
of being over 39.
>>REGINA: Barely.
With rosy, perfect skin still.
>>HELLYER: Correct.
Thank you.
So what we did, we took
all of the car companies
and refrigerator companies
and washing machine companies
and transferred them
into armaments companies.
They were making tanks
and trucks and munitions.
Now we just have
to do the opposite
and take all these
armaments companies, who
are providing the ammunition
to keep the wars going
in the Middle East, and
the insurrections and all
of the other things,
and transfer them
into producing
zero-point energy boxes,
and then installing them.
Now, problem-- where are
they going to get the money?
And they're only going
to have the money
to do it, nation-states, if they
start producing that free money
in copious amounts.
>>REGINA: Because there is quite
a cost involved in switching
over from the old way
and the technology--
>>HELLYER: It's going
to be expensive.
It's going to cost
trillions of dollars.
But it's going to, at
the same time-- and one
of the excuses given for
not doing it is that it's
going to be disruptive.
Of course it's going
to be disruptive.
>>REGINA: Let's hope.
>>HELLYER: But it's going
to create billions of jobs,
making all of these boxes
and installing them,
and then changing
the infrastructure
and getting rid of
the wires that we
use to transport electricity
miles across the landscape,
despoiling the
landscape and so on.
So economically, it would be
a plus rather than a minus.
And the only thing missing--
well, there are two things.
One, the United States
is going to have
to make the technology public.
Because the Cabal control it.
They've been ruthless
about keeping it
from getting into
the public domain.
And the president, by
presidential decree,
is going to have
to make it public.
And then, once it
is public, we're
going to have to
start converting
armaments companies
and other manufacturing
companies into the manufacture
of these small boxes, which
are described in the Serpo
expedition, for example.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: And
then install them.
>>REGINA: And that
was from the '60s.
Let's remind people,
that was from the '60s.
>>HELLYER: Yeah,
absolutely, the '60s.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: And one
of the people who
worked in Area 51 and
S4, the late Dr. Wolf,
said that they had
developed-- again,
going back the '60s-- both cold
fusion and zero-point energy.
>>REGINA: And so
again the press,
being owned by whoever
they're owned by,
crucified cold fusion.
>>HELLYER: Absolutely.
So this has to be done.
And it must be done if we
are going to save our planet.
But we have all of
these people acting
as if this is a problem
you can worry about 30
or 40 or 50 years from
now, when it's too late.
And how do we get that
message out to the people?
>>REGINA: Well, yeah,
that's one of the things I
wanted to talk to you about.
Because you do have a plan.
I mean, you've thought all
this through very well.
I mean, we can go on
and keep hammering away
on what happened back then.
I only brought up the
World War II aspect of this
to show that all these
things were premeditated--
very unlikely and ugly
bedfellows-- to create
what became Nazi Germany.
And after Nazi Germany,
that didn't go away.
The brain trust of that was
essentially preserved and moved
forward into our
culture in America.
Right?
Can you talk a little bit
about that and how it--
>>HELLYER: Yeah,
Operation Paperclip.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: A lot of
German scientists
were brought over at
the end of the war.
And President Truman
said, don't bring them
if they were close
to the Nazi Party.
The military, being
the military--
and I know them
reasonably well, as you
can guess-- didn't pay any
attention to the president.
They brought them anyway.
And some of them had been
really hardcore Nazis.
And so you have to
wonder if they didn't
bring some of their
ideology with them
and perhaps meld it with
people in the United States
who were sympathetic to
that form of government,
because there were some
prior to World War II
and during World War II.
And how strong this
force is, I have no idea.
But I do know what
the New World Order--
it's even the same words--
>>REGINA: The same motto.
>>HELLYER: --that the
Germans were using.
>>REGINA: But it has certainly
fed into the perpetuation
of perpetual war.
>>HELLYER: Perpetual war.
>>REGINA: To feed the
banksters, the money mafia.
>>HELLYER: Right.
>>REGINA: To keep us in
the position we're in.
>>HELLYER: Also the
idea of a superior race.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: Which is, as
you know, in the works
again with
cross-breeding and so on.
And they're talking about
population reduction.
And who's going to get reduced?
>>REGINA: Ooh, that gets into
some really interesting areas,
especially when you talk about
the Google boys, and the Google
wives, and 23andMe,
and people saying,
oh, I want to know if I
have a propensity toward, I
don't know, sneezing.
So here, you have all
my DNA information.
We're willingly giving
up that information
so that these genotypes
can be exploited, and even
in the potential of
biological warfare.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
It is a precarious situation.
And we haven't talked
about chemtrails and--
>>REGINA: Oh, I have it
down here if you will.
Yes.
>>HELLYER: And HAARP
and what is really up.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Please, if you're
comfortable talking about it,
I wish you would.
>>HELLYER: Well,
I'm not an expert.
I'm looking into-- this
is one of the things
that I'm digging into now.
Because as a matter
of fact, the chap
who was kind enough to drive
me to Irvine for the UFO
conference said that they were
finding aluminum in the sand.
And the allegation is
that the chemtrails-- I
don't know if they're based in
coal ashes, as some people say.
But they carry, allegedly,
nanoparticles of aluminum,
and barium, and strontium,
and other things.
And they are ingested.
And they go into the bloodstream
and follow the bloodstream
right up to the
brain, and allegedly
cause problems like early
senility, and Alzheimer's,
and other forms of disease.
Some of them are
carcinomic as well.
And then the other
network, I guess,
provides a way of
killing anybody anywhere
at any time in the world.
And geopolitics of--
>>REGINA: You're
talking about HAARP.
>>HELLYER: --being able
to cause earthquakes,
snow in the summer and
rain in the winter,
and all of these things.
And talk about things we
don't know and should know.
There's another giant
area that should be
exposed before it's too late.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I have, over the last 10
years, and many others have,
done pieces on this.
But again, we're talking to
a relatively small portion
of the public.
Because once again,
the mainstream media
suppresses any information
and then ridicules
what already exists.
It's really hard
to break through
to the average person
that is attached
to mainstream anything.
>>HELLYER: It is.
And one of the reasons
it's so difficult
to get the public
interested is because they
don't know the difference
between a contrail
and a chemtrail.
>>REGINA: I was on this
beat for a while myself.
And in the morning, I was
calling the National Weather
Service.
I was asking for moisture
content at elevations.
I was calling the
FAA and saying, well,
what about this flying
overhead right now?
Oh, we don't track that.
Why don't you track?
That's military.
We don't track that, the
ones that were laying--
I went down that
rabbit hole very deeply
and came out with only one
thing on the other end,
but it was important.
I finally reached
the head of the FAA,
their public information
officer for the western US.
And I said, is the reason you
and all of these other agents
will not tell me
about any of this,
and tell me about these
planes laying trails
right over here right
now, because this
is a military operation?
And he said, yes.
And that was the end
of the conversation,
but he admitted it.
He had to, in case he
was being recorded.
It's a military operation.
We know that.
We know people and hair
samples in little kids
are coming up with
aluminum in them,
when there's no other
viable source of aluminum
in their diets.
This is a weakening
of the immune system
of the human species.
>>HELLYER: Exactly.
And I'm so concerned
about these things.
I never carry pictures of my
children or my grandchildren.
>>REGINA: Just chemtrails.
>>HELLYER: But I
carry a picture of
my little great-granddaughter
to remind me why I'm fighting.
Because the air she breathes,
the water she drinks,
and the soil where
her food will be grown
is all being
poisoned by somebody.
>>REGINA: Yes, it is.
>>HELLYER: And they don't
have my permission to do that.
And they don't have hers.
So where do they get it?
Where do they get the orders?
Who is responsible for it?
Who said they could do it?
And I think we should know that.
>>REGINA: We should.
Now we just have a
few minutes left.
Let's talk about the way
you see it lining up,
because it all comes back on us.
I mean, if we change
the banking structure,
it means that cheap
and easy credit may not
be available to us to go
buy a thousand-dollar purse
at the age of 15 that
you can't afford,
and you'll be paying
back for years and years.
I mean, we have been duped in to
the consumer consciousness that
feeds this.
So let's talk about it from a
personal responsibility level
forward, what we have to do
to start altering the system.
>>HELLYER: Well, we have
to understand leverage,
where we started out
this conversation.
I usually go back to the
time when the Bank of England
was chartered and the king was
fighting a war against France.
He needed some more money
to replenish his supplies
and build some new
ships and things.
His credit was no good.
So it was suggested
he start a bank.
And Parliament authorized
the Bank of England.
And rich people put in 1,200,000
pounds of gold and silver,
and lent it all to
the king at 8%, which
was a pretty high interest rate
for a government-guaranteed
loan.
So to show his appreciation,
the king said, well,
you can now print-- P-R-I-N-T--
$1,200,000 in bank notes
and lend them to your friends
at high interest rates.
So in effect, they were allowed
to lend the same money twice.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: Well,
in the early years
of the 20th century
in the United States,
your federally-chartered
banks had
to have gold reserves of 25%.
So they were allowed to lend
the same money four times.
In my country, Canada,
when I was younger,
the banks had to have
8% cash reserves.
Which meant they could lend
the same money 12.5 times.
In 1991, our government
took off that requirement.
And now they don't have
to have any cash reserve.
And when Milton
Friedman came along,
we changed the system from cash
reserves to capital reserves.
And the capital that
they have to have now,
as we've been
talking about, is 5%
in order to create a
dollar, or a pound,
or whatever it is
that's created.
And this system is
just so lopsided
because all of the people in the
world, other than the bankers,
can't do that.
I mean, you can't lend three
or four different people
the same money and
get away with it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: But the banks can.
So we have to change the system.
We have to change the rules.
And that's the reason
that I'm suggesting
that we reduce the
leverage over seven years,
because we want to have
a smooth transition.
A lot of my colleagues
would do things faster.
And I said, hey, you're
going to disrupt markets.
You're going to do all
sorts of crazy things
that you can't perceive.
We'll do it over
an extended period,
and it'll be so smooth
that people will hardly
know that it's happening.
Except that these very rich
people who are promoting things
like the Trans-Pacific
Partnership,
which is nothing but the biggest
power grab in the history
of the world--
>>REGINA: Please explain
it in encapsulation
form for us so we understand
what it is and why.
>>HELLYER: The
Trans-Pacific Partner
is the United States
and Canada and a lot
of countries around
the Pacific Rim
taking power from the people and
transferring it to the Cabal,
basically, to the banks and to
the transnational corporations,
and taking it away from their
legislatures and their courts.
And it should be a
criminal offense.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: And yet
it's almost done.
And this is really tragic.
>>REGINA: And we
slept through it.
>>HELLYER: Slept through it.
We're just waiting for these
to be signed and sealed.
But these are the
culmination of globalization,
all in the direction of
a world government run by
and for the elite people and
the bankers of this world.
And they've been working
at it since the 1940s,
during the war period.
Before the war was
even over, the Council
on Foreign Relations said,
we're going to build an empire.
It's going to be bigger
than the German empire.
It's going to encompass those
lands, ours, all of America,
Pacific Rim--
>>REGINA: Big vision.
>>HELLYER: Big fish.
And it's going to make this
empire look better and bigger
than any other empire in
the history of the world.
Wrong direction to go.
>>REGINA: As we were
talking about before,
is there a direct
line between what
happened in Roswell
those days, a direct line
through to the money
mafia that we know today?
>>HELLYER: I would say
there is a direct line, yes.
It's a cabal which, in effect,
has taken over responsibility
for the ET file.
And this cabal, as you know,
starts with the bankers,
the banking cartel.
That's the apex.
Then the oil cartel, and then
the transnational corporations
and the whole idea
of globalization,
then the intelligence agencies.
Many of them, but
especially the CIA,
are responsible for
a lot of things.
And the FBI and the
NSA and maybe the MI6
helps them a little bit, and
the Mossad from time to time.
And then a huge chunk of
the American military.
And they're all in it together.
But the line goes right up
to the top elite people,
and perhaps with
their connection
even with some secret societies
that we're not aware of.
>>REGINA: So with our
few minutes remaining,
what can we, the people, do to
now get some integrity, dignity
back in our own lives,
to recover ourselves?
Let's just assume-- let's
say we have political means.
Maybe just quickly
delineate what
those are, what tools
we have at our disposal,
and then what we can
do personally now?
>>HELLYER: Well,
I've been preaching
for weeks and months and years.
If enough people put
pressure on politicians,
something would happen.
But there's only one thing
that politicians understand,
and that's pressure.
Are they going to
get reelected or not?
And if they think they're not,
they'll change their minds.
But as long--
>>REGINA: Can they
legislate this problem away?
>>HELLYER: Well, they could drop
the Trans-Pacific Partnership
and say, we will not go
for that because it's
a violation of our constitution.
At least in our country,
it would unilaterally
change our constitution and take
away our basic banking rights.
And we would not be able
to do the things that I've
been proposing in my books.
And in my opinion, it's illegal.
It's immoral.
I don't know if the Supreme
Court would overrule it or not.
But certainly if
they go through,
we'll have to try and
get the Supreme Court
to take a look at it.
Because it just would be end of
the road for doing what we have
to do and should do in order
to set the world right for not
just great-granddaughters but
granddaughters and daughters
and--
>>REGINA: So use our ability to
still apply political pressure.
>>HELLYER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Then from
there, what do we do?
>>HELLYER: Well, that means we
have to change our priorities.
And even though
we're busy trying
to pay the next month's
rent and so on, say,
got to take a timeout to protect
my future rights as well.
So got to take an interest.
Because a lot of
people don't vote.
A lot of people don't
care about voting.
A lot of people
don't read anything
on the subject that's
more substantial than they
get in the controlled press,
or listen to anything that's
contrary to the news reports.
>>REGINA: That's true.
>>HELLYER: And individual
responsibility.
I remember Paul
Herr saying that.
Individual responsibility
is what we have to take.
We have to change our own lives.
And we have to
take responsibility
for changing the system for
the benefit of other people.
>>REGINA: And do you
believe we can do that?
>>HELLYER: Theoretically, yes.
Theoretically, I
believe in miracles.
I am not an oddsmaker.
The odds are so far against
us because of the power,
especially of the bankers and
the transnational corporations.
But as Yogi Berra said, it's
not over till it's over.
So we got to keep
fighting and doing
everything we can to see
if we can't get that home
run, the loaded bases at
the end of the innings,
and stop this nonsense
before it's too late.
>>REGINA: Paul, I want
to thank you so much.
And again, people can
read "The Money Mafia."
And it'll give the diagram of
how all of this came to be,
and again, your action
plan at the end.
And I thank you so much
for all the public service
and the careful thought
and consideration.
And once again, as you say,
a return to basic morality
is what we need.
>>HELLYER: It's my pleasure.
And thank you for giving me
the opportunity to sound off.
>>REGINA: Again, the book
is titled "The Money Mafia,"
and you can find it
in major booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]